[THEME MUSIC]
>>And I think many
people today don't
know what to believe anymore.
>>People are basically
going to keep on
to help uncover what
really happened.
>>I felt like something
was watching me.
>>We weren't given
all the information.
We weren't told
the entire story.
>>NARRATOR: Brothers
Jim and Bill Vieira--
>>Let's do it.
>>NARRATOR: --are taking
a big step forward
in their quest to prove
the existence of giants.
>>That's wicked cool.
>>NARRATOR: The stonemasons
from smalltown Massachusetts
are at a place
steeped in mystery.
It's called the Goshen Tunnel.
>>Holy [BLEEP].
Wow.
>>NARRATOR: No one
knows who built it
or what it was used for.
But Jim believes this site
may contain evidence of a lost
civilization, of giants.
>>It just seems like it was
like meant to be hidden.
That's the thing.
>>JIM VIEIRA: The
Goshen Tunnel, it
fits the context of these
strange underground stone
passageways and crypts
around the country
that yielded giant skeletons.
In the Smithsonian
ethnology reports,
there are 17 accounts of
7-foot and taller skeletons.
>>NARRATOR: Finding such
evidence at the Goshen site
won't be easy, so
the Vieiras called
in the one remaining team
member from the last excavation.
>>You must be Bill.
>>Rick?
>>Good call.
The long hair?
Pleasure to meet you.
>>Jim, how you doing, buddy?
Last guy in the hole.
>>Last guy in the
hole, very good.
>>NARRATOR: Rick Lynch was
part of Jim Whitall's field
team, which 30 years
ago, were the last people
to study the site.
>>RICK LYNCH: It's been a long
time since I've been here.
>>Richard Lynch, he's just
a wealth of information,
and he's open-minded.
He doesn't really
believe in giants.
But hopefully, we
can find something
and try to convince him.
>>Gentlemen, these
are our original plans
of the structure from 1980.
This is the short tunnel.
This is the north tunnel
and then this much longer
south tunnel.
The old Goshen law was that
the tunnel is 120 feet long,
but we only got so far
down through there.
Legend has it there's a
room at the end of it.
That part of the theory
permeates everything,
that there is an
underground room.
>>NARRATOR: Up until
now, no one has ever
been able to prove the
chamber's existence.
But the Vieiras are counting
on their stone masonry
background and some new
technology to find it.
>>JIM VIEIRA: Jim Whitall
tried to find a chamber
and he ended up failing.
Goshen Historical Society,
they tried and failed.
A bunch of farmers
drunk on moonshine,
they tried and failed.
So we hope to try and
hopefully not fail.
>>GEORGE NOORY:
Well, what you just
saw was an excerpt from
the History Channel,
where Jim Vieira
and his brother Bill
go hunting for giants, actual
giants, skeletons of giants.
He's also the co-author of
the book, "Giants on Record."
Wow, they're really
out there, Jim, huh?
Welcome to "Beyond Belief."
>>JIM VIEIRA: Thanks
for having me, George.
Yeah, I kind of fell
into this mystery.
I'll give a little background.
I'm a stonemason by trade.
My brother and I both
studied economics
at the University
of Massachusetts.
And I've done years of research,
historical detective work,
trying to make the case
that Native Americans built
with stone in New England.
And the mainstream theory is
that, for whatever reason,
that Natives didn't
bill the stone.
Although, all around the
country, including the Ohio
River Valley, all
down south, there
were massive stone
wall complexes,
and anthropomorphic forms,
and burial tombs of stone
everywhere.
So in New England, you
have these mysterious stone
chambers, and serpents of stone,
and turtles, and balance rocks.
And I said, let's look
at the historical record.
Let's look at the documents
of the colonists showing up,
to see if we can verify this.
And many accounts have--
like John Pynchon, 1654,
showing up in Gungywamp,
Pequot, Connecticut and talking
about a mysterious stone
chamber that's there.
And so it was verifying that
case, which is only natural.
Native Americans have been
around in the Northeast
for about 12,000 years,
often building with stone,
we believe.
But I ran into an account
of an 8-foot skeleton
with double rows of
teeth in George Sheldon's
1895 "History."
>>NOORY: 8-foot skeleton?
>>VIEIRA: A head as
big as a peck basket
with double rows of teeth.
And I knew that Sheldon
was very well-respected.
He was this Mass state senator.
He founded the museum and
a library in Deerfield.
So I went and I talked to
one of the curators there.
And I said, did you know that
Sheldon talked about this giant
with double rows
of teeth that was
unearthed by Henry Mather,
analyzed by Stephen Williams?
He talked to Stephen
Williams, who taught anatomy
at Berkshire College.
So I went in and I was given
his archaeological scrapbook
on the table.
And I'd like to say was
it was my "Da Vinci Code."
I really got this
electrical surge.
And I'm a pretty dense dude,
and I knew what was in there.
I open it up, and he
had multiple accounts
of giant skeletons
being unearthed
with double rows of teeth.
>>NOORY: Wow.
>>VIEIRA: And then
I got together
with Hugh Newman, Ross
Hamilton, Mikey Hughes,
these other researchers who
worked with Native Americans
like Ross did.
And I found accounts,
and we found
counts all around the
country, from Catalina Island
to Martha's Vineyard,
and oftentimes indicating
double rows of teeth,
which is really strange.
There's a lot of
controversy around it.
We approach it in the show.
Is it the parlance of the time?
Was it ground down teeth?
What was it?
But the moral of the story is,
we've encountered over 1,000
accounts of 7-foot and taller
skeletons in man-made burial
sites and mounds, 17
7'-plus skeletons indicated
in the Smithsonian ethnology
reports, noted historians,
doctors, "New York
Times," on and on and on.
And we're just trying
to make the case
that it's worthy of
further investigation.
>>NOORY: Were they
human-like skeletons?
>>VIEIRA: Yes.
Yes.
>>NOORY: Just bigger.
>>VIEIRA: Just bigger.
And there are many theories.
What's interesting now is we
have new scientific information
coming out.
Like the Denisovans,
40,000 years ago,
in the Siberian cave, they mated
with humans and Neanderthals.
And the only evidence
they have is two teeth
and a finger bone of a woman
that's very robust, very broad.
And the tooth is very large.
And they came from
heidelbergensis.
Heidelbergensis was originally
found, I believe, in 1911.
And they date back from
200,000 to 600,000 years ago.
But there was a strain or
a branch of heidelbergensis
found in South Africa.
And Professor Lee Berger
claims, or indicates,
that they were well over
seven feet, oftentimes.
And they haven't found
a complete femur,
but they found these
massive joints and femur
bones that indicate a
population that is enormous.
And to get back to
my point, Denisovans
came from heidelbergensis.
They're the ancestors that
interbred with humans.
So we're not just throwing
a crazy theory out there.
We're bringing in
archaeologists,
anthropologists, skeptics to
try to figure out this mystery.
>>NOORY: What happened
to these giants?
I mean, where are they?
>>VIEIRA: You see people
with pituitary problems that
represent giants sometimes,
but you see 7-foot tall people.
It's a very good question.
I think Ross Hamilton, the
"Godfather of Giantology,
he's on the show.
And Ross would say, from his
working with Native Americans,
that there was a royal
class of Native Americans.
And it was interbreeding that
kept this royal class alive.
And that might be a reason
for the anatomic anomaly
of double rows of teeth.
Also reported were
massive jawbones
that could fit over
the face of the finder.
So in the United
States, you would
have a royal class that
basically died out,
unfortunately, along with the--
>>NOORY: So that's
what happened--
>>VIEIRA: That is the belief.
>>NOORY: --extinct.
>>VIEIRA: What's interesting
is the early explorers
also said the same thing.
John Smith, Lawson, De
Soto, Coronado, Magellan.
From Patagonia to
Virginia, they all,
in the 1400s, 1500s, and 1600s,
encountered giant humans.
>>NOORY: What's strange is
that biblically speaking,
the Bible talks about
the Nephilim, the giants.
And could these creatures,
these beings, have been them?
>>VIEIRA: We
entertain that theory
in episode six of our show.
We hook up with LA Marzulli,
who is a friend of mine,
and he's a researcher.
>>NOORY: Good guy.
>>VIEIRA: He's a real good guy.
And I don't discount any of it.
I look at the Bible and I
see accounts of six fingers
and six toes, the giant of Gath.
Moses sends out scouts, and
he talks about encountering
giant humans.
We look like grasshoppers
in their sight.
This isn't myths
and fairy tales.
It's hard written evidence
of scouting excursions.
It's a very
interesting prospect.
And then you have
petroglyphs all
around the Southwest with six
fingers and six toe, sometimes
giant size.
It's very compelling.
Where did they come from?
Some would say Atlantis.
Edgar Cayce would say--
>>NOORY: Sure.
>>VIEIRA: He has
a specific account
of a Mound Builder in Florida
who was of giant size,
belonging to a race much
larger than modern day humans.
And he says,
specifically in Atlantis,
10- and 12-foot humans existed.
And you could say that's
a lot of nonsense.
But now that haplogroup X
mitochondrial DNA research
lines up with Cayce's accounts
of where the Atlantean
migrants went 12,000 years
ago-- the Iroquois Indians,
they have 25% of
mitochondrial X1
DNA-- it's utterly fascinating.
I don't want to be long-winded.
I'll say, Dennis Stanford
at the Smithsonian
has the Solutrean
hypothesis that
is spawned by this, by artifact
finds, and by the haplogroup X.
On both sides of the
Atlantic, this is occurring.
And he might have it in reverse,
that you might have refugees
from a lost colony that
account for this haplogroup X.
>>NOORY: Well, Jim, you
bring up the Smithsonian.
Aren't they the subject
of a lot of controversy?
That they have these
skeletons stored away,
and they're not telling anybody?
>>VIEIRA: Absolutely.
I have learned-- I
started diligent research,
I'll say, just being a
relentless researcher years
ago.
And I've had to burn it all
down and start from scratch.
Because you have the hardened
debunkers on one side
and, I have to say, the true
believers who want to believe,
and they don't apply
logic and reason.
And they reiterate
things that aren't true.
So I've tried to--
>>NOORY: That doesn't help.
>>VIEIRA: It doesn't help.
It really doesn't.
There was a reason why
people-- I think they find our,
basically, the way
society is reprehensible,
the dehumanization of people.
Just there is something amiss
in society and people know it.
And there are real
conspiracies out there.
There's no question about it.
But oftentimes, things don't
get looked at objectively
because people, they're
infuriated with the system,
basically.
Then you have
trolls and debunkers
on the other side, who
aren't objective either,
and don't look at a holistic
approach to these things.
I've talked to scientists
at the Smithsonian.
I've engaged and am friends
with many anthropologists
and archaeologists
at this point.
And I don't believe in
the present day there's
some mass conspiracy going on.
I would say, 100 years ago, when
anthropology was being formed,
there were some
particular racist heads
of the Smithsonian,
like Dr. Hrdlicka.
And he believed in
cranial measurement.
And he had some
nauseating comments
about African Americans
and Native Americans,
and how they were
inferior to whites.
I believe that the
idea of giant skeletons
got lumped in with the lost race
theory of who built the mounds.
The Europeans showed up.
They said, these
Native Americans
couldn't have
built these mounds.
It was a lost race.
But we now know it was the
ancestors of Native Americans
that built these
incredible earthen
pyramids in geometric form.
>>NOORY: There's one in Cahokia.
>>VIEIRA: One in
Cahokia, 100-foot high,
with the base larger
than the Great Pyramid
in Egypt, a four-step pyramid.
It's just amazing.
>>NOORY: There's
something in that, Jim.
>>VIEIRA: There is
something in that.
Actually, they found
in 1999, there's
a stone tomb in the
middle of it, when they
were supporting the side of it.
And Greg Little is
a buddy of mine.
And he's brilliant
and objective,
and he believes the same.
>>NOORY: But why the
controversy from Smithsonian?
Why hold back this information?
I mean, what so
damaging about telling
the world skeletons of
giants roamed this planet.
>>VIEIRA: Within their
own ethnology reports,
they have 17 accounts of
7-foot and taller skeletons,
sometimes approaching 8-foot.
Alton, Illinois, 1873, in
the "Twelfth Annual Report,"
I believe, there
was a skull listed
as 36 inches in diameter,
which is outrageous.
>>NOORY: Ironically, in Alton,
didn't that person live--
he had a pituitary problem.
Robert Walden, I think.
>>VIEIRA: Bingo.
It's funny, yes.
But there were multiple skulls.
They crumbled to dust,
much like other accounts,
because they were so ancient.
But these skeletons didn't
get up and move around.
They were measured.
There are many reports
of enormous skeletons
being found by the
Smithsonian scientists
and going to the Smithsonian,
there the controversy.
That's why people
are asking questions.
Were there some funny business
going on 100 years ago?
So we know from school.
We didn't learn about Cahokia.
We didn't learn
about geometric forms
and how amazing Native
civilizations were.
And this is another remarkable
part of the civilizations,
like enormous kings and queens
buried with pearls, and copper
crowns, and things like that.
Look at the NFL now.
I'm a Patriots fan.
You get Tom Brady
getting hung out to dry.
>>NOORY: You're happy
about that, right?
>>VIEIRA: I'm happy
about Judge Berman.
>>NOORY: Yeah.
>>VIEIRA: But the point is that
the corporations aren't people.
They don't operate like that.
It's a bunch of lap
dogs and yes-men.
And even at the highest
levels of the Smithsonian
now, you have figures that
are accepting donations
from the Koch brothers to have
these ridiculous permanent
installations that basically
are debunking global warming.
And that got me in
trouble at my TED Talk,
because I went off on a rant.
Because I was pissed.
I was like, you have
brilliant scientists
at the Smithsonian
just doing their job.
And then you have yes-men
allowing this to happen.
So I don't have the answers.
I'm trying to--
>>NOORY: But they're afraid
of something, obviously.
You don't hide
things unless you're
afraid of the information.
There's no other reason.
>>VIEIRA: Yeah.
Yeah.
Or trying to stick
with manifest destiny.
Or there could be
particular theories
that just want to be met.
It's very compelling.
It's very interesting.
I will say, on our
show, what I do
is we try to engage
skeptics, and scientists,
and professionals,
and ask their opinion,
and let's follow the
scientific method.
And let's bring
science to mystery
and not just make
crazy theories.
Let's see.
And there's a lot of
compelling stuff going
on-- hobbits in
Indonesia, Denisovans,
events heidelbergensis.
>>NOORY: Giants in Afghanistan.
We've heard that story.
>>VIEIRA: Yes.
A giant hand axe was found
in 2009 by Oxford scientists,
4 12-inch and longer,
the largest stone axes
ever found at this
dry basin in Africa,
mixed with thousands
of normal-sized tools.
And they don't know
what to make of it.
What does it mean?
There's giant artifacts
all around the globe too.
There's a million angles.
Mystics like Edgar Cayce, Rudolf
Steiner, the Theosophists,
the Freemasons, the Rosicrucians
all talk about giants.
And there's proof
that Atlantis existed.
It's just a wild freak show.
And I look at myself, and
I like to think of myself
as objective and reasonable.
And I've been thrust into this--
>>NOORY: It's not easy, is it?
>>VIEIRA: --"Twilight Zone."
It's not easy, because
I take a lot of hits.
>>NOORY: Do you think there
are some of these giants
on the planet today
that maybe we see them
in our daily walks of life?
They're just tall people.
I mean, I've been on airplanes.
And I've seen some guy come in
who could barely stoop down,
he was so tall.
Might they have been
descendants of these people?
>>VIEIRA: You have King
Kamehameha in Hawaii.
He is the king that
took all the islands
and incorporated one kingdom.
He was known to be like
7-foot, maybe 8-foot tall.
He lifted this massive
boulder that is still there.
They have his long
cape that is enormous.
I think there was a royal
class of giant people
that might have been descended
from heidelbergensis,
Denisovans, who knows?
A mystery race that
we haven't found yet.
It's not like bones are lying
all around the place that
are 50,000 years old.
Yes, it's very probable.
And if you talk to
guys like Steve Quayle,
they might tell you a story
about the Solomon Islands.
>>GEORGE NOORY:
Oh, that's right.
I'll interject some science.
Brian Greene did a
4-part special for--
>>NOORY: Great physicist.
>>VIEIRA: --PBS, right?
Theoretical physicist.
"The Edge of the Cosmos,"
I think that it was.
And it's brilliant.
And it just talks about how
it's basically uniformly
agreed that quantum physicists
tell us that our reality is not
what we think, that time
does not exist like we think,
that this entire universe is a
projection from a source they
can't find within the
realm of time and space.
It's like the really giant
mystery here is something else.
There's a holographic
reality to everything,
and you have to look
at these things.
You have to look at the
fabric, the nature of reality
to start to understand
these mysteries.
Who knows about
what is going on?
Multidimensional activity.
I hate to throw something out
there that is not so concrete,
but we don't know.
And we have to bring in science
to answer these questions
and be open-minded
and humble about it.
>>NOORY: Could cavemen
have been giants
as well, those huge,
huge beings that
lived maybe with dinosaurs?
>>VIEIRA: Another good question.
Absolutely a possibility.
And you could have
coexisting civilizations
that existed, a more primitive
state and a more advanced
state, just like our current
civilization that is very
advanced, and we have tribes.
>>NOORY: Oh my god, you still
have cannibals and tribes
living in tents.
>>VIEIRA: Well, One thing
about oral tradition
too is that you'll
look around the world,
and indigenous oral tradition
tells the same story.
They talk about a great
cataclysm, probably 10,000,
12,000 years ago.
They talk about little people.
They talk about giants, and
it's consistent everywhere.
And then you have
the floresiensis
in Indonesia in 2004.
You have nine beings
that were basically
3-foot tall on the
island of Indonesia.
And the Ebu Gogo was the
mythical little people
that were pointed to by the
indigenous people of Indonesia.
And this could be them.
And you have the same
myths and legends.
A comparative mythologist would
say, what do oral traditions
tell us about the past?
Cataclysm, small
people, giants, and it's
like a "Lord of the Rings."
They all tell us that, so
I am open to every angle
and historical accounts too.
>>NOORY: Were these
giants cannibals, Jim?
I heard that.
>>VIEIRA: Well, they
talk about that,
like the Karankawa was in
Texas, 6 and 1/2, 7-foot tall
sometimes.
And that's from Wikipedia.
It was well known
that they were huge.
That is a good question.
Yeah, quite possibly.
They've found cannibalistic
activities that
occurred at different places.
Scientists of the time, when
they uncovered these remains,
they would find
marrow that gnawed.
And it wasn't
survival cannibalism.
It seemed like a ritual thing.
That is the religious narrative.
There was a malevolent
race of giants, basically.
>>NOORY: Well,
David and Goliath.
That's an incredible story.
I think Goliath was a giant.
>>VIEIRA: Absolutely.
>>NOORY: Philistine, but
I think he was a giant.
>>VIEIRA: Yes.
Oh, I'd love to get
into a time machine.
I'll tell you, there
were Chinese guards
that were noted to be
9- and 10-foot tall,
the giant of Gabara, 9-foot 9.
These are accounts
of living people made
by the chronicles of the
time throughout history,
Flavius Josephus.
They talk about not
only bones of these men
of enormous proportions
existing but also
live giants, some
strain of humanity.
>>NOORY: If they lived,
how far back did they live?
>>VIEIRA: I would say,
as far back as humans.
That's what science is
trying to figure out.
>>NOORY: Hundreds of
thousands of years?
>>VIEIRA: Hundreds of thousands
of years ago, absolutely.
It's really on science now to
keep coming up with new finds
and to analyze them
and to see is there--
we just found Denisovans
a couple of years ago.
It's like, wow.
Oversized finger bone,
a very large tooth--
we cover that in the show.
Interbreeding with Neanderthals
and humans in a cave in Siberia
at least 40,000 years ago.
>>NOORY: They constantly
are finding new species
of ancient humans and mankind.
Have we ever found any
children's skeletons
of what would have been giants?
>>VIEIRA: Listed, yes.
That's a problematic
thing a lot of these bones
are repatriated in the United
States because of NAGPRA laws.
Understandably, they
go back in the ground.
But then you have like
Kennewick Man, who
was contested by native tribes.
And it looks like he came from--
>>NOORY: Was he a giant?
>>VIEIRA: No, he wasn't a giant.
He was a little
oversized, maybe.
I think he was 5'10", 5'8".
But he shows characteristics
of the ancient Polynesians
and Japanese, And the question
is, where did Native Americans
come from?
And there's a lot of-- it's
a real hot button topic.
There's a lot of
racist people who
are trying to claim otherwise.
So it's a real-- you
must tread carefully.
Obviously, my take is I just
want the truth to come out.
Where did they come from?
Were there migrations
from the Pacific?
Were there migrations from
a continent in the Atlantic?
Were there giant people involved
in these migrations that
made it here that were viewed
as the builders of society,
the temple priests
from a lost continent?
Maybe.
Native oral tradition
speaks of that sometimes.
But you've got to be careful.
We want science to decide this.
And Native Americans have really
got the short end of the stick,
and terribly so.
And it's just ended up we're
in a really contentious time
trying to figure
these things out.
I'm just trying to be
objective and reasonable.
>>NOORY: What's
amazing though to me,
Jim, is what happened to them?
Where did they go?
How did they die off?
Because they're gone.
>>VIEIRA: Yes.
>>NOORY: Could they have
been extraterrestrials,
and they just all
picked up and left?
What happened to them?
>>VIEIRA: Another good point.
Where do humans come from?
Where's the missing link?
Genetic intervention.
I'm not an Anunnaki
guy, but you look
at these different theories.
It's perfectly reasonable
to investigate where
humans came from genetically.
Were we genetically created and
seeded and put on this planet?
And humans are a species
that needs to be quarantined.
What we've done to the planet,
and the way we've, like I said,
dehumanized, and the lack of
empathy, and things like this--
>>NOORY: It's crazy.
>>VIEIRA: --it's crazy.
So is that just evolution?
It doesn't seem so.
It's like we're a slave species,
like theoretically in minds,
or something.
And now we're just--
there's probably
some intelligent species
that's like, this strain has
to be quarantined till
it gets its act together.
>>NOORY: We have
stories of giants,
but we have also stories
of little people,
very small people.
This planet must have had
an abundance of everything.
>>VIEIRA: Cayce and
Steiner both talk
about that, the mystics
about little people existing
on Atlantis too, which
is another curve ball.
It's like, why would
they just make that up?
>>NOORY: Yeah.
>>VIEIRA: And then
like Lewis and Clark,
you have all the Native--
I'll quickly say it.
Ross Hamilton, he worked
with Vine Deloria, who
wrote "Red Earth, White Lies."
He was the Lakota Elder.
He was brilliant.
He was friends with Velikovsky.
He had a different
version of reality
than mainstream science does.
And he got together
the native elders
to have a conference about
giants and little people.
And he said the oral
tradition of little people
was much stronger.
Lewis and Clark went out and
met with the Native tribes,
and they were afraid to go
to Spirit Mountain in South
Dakota, because of the legends
of the malevolent little
people, who would basically
kill you with poison darts.
So he went up there
armed with a bunch of--
>>NOORY: How small were they?
>>VIEIRA: Like this.
>>NOORY: 2 feet, maybe.
>>VIEIRA: 2 and 3 feet.
>>NOORY: Fully
proportioned little people.
>>VIEIRA: And that's
all these Native tribes.
I mean, go out and live
outdoors for like six months
and see how tough it is.
These people were
tied to the land.
They were tied to
the understanding
of the cycles of nature.
And they were tied to an
oral tradition that would not
be filled with erroneous
literature or content,
for lack of a better word.
So they're telling
these stories,
and they're terrified
to go to this place.
And Lewis and Clark went
up there to investigate.
It's just fascinating that
you have these people saying
the same thing.
>>NOORY: All around the planet.
What a planet.
>>VIEIRA: What a
planet, exactly.
And that is like-- talk
to a quantum physicist.
Talk to a geneticist.
Talk to an anthropologist.
And it's like, get
them off the record,
and they'll all say,
what a strange planet.
>>NOORY: Why do I
think that someplace
in some multimillionaire's house
there are skeletons of giants?
>>VIEIRA: Bingo.
I bet you there's an Illuminati
freak with a 12-foot giant.
I swear.
>>NOORY: Yes, absolutely.
>>VIEIRA: Yes,
I'm with you, man.
And you could say,
show me the proof.
My gut-- when you're an
investigator, when you're
a detective, like if you're
a good cop, you're up at 3:00
in the morning.
You just follow your gut.
And the universe
is never so lazy
to have coincidences everywhere.
And you keep following,
and you use your intuition.
And you're open-minded,
and you take
in everybody's information.
I don't care if they're
religious-minded or
conspiracy-minded.
You take it all in.
And you do your homework,
and you go with your gut.
And my gut tells me that--
that this is a reality,
and there is a 12-foot
skeleton-- I'm telling you.
>>NOORY: In somebody's house.
>>VIEIRA: I really feel so.
>>NOORY: And he has
parties, and all his friends
see it, and everything.
"Eyes Wide Shut"--
>>VIEIRA: Bingo.
>>NOORY: --all over again.
>>VIEIRA: And my buddy, Hugh
Newman-- you know Hugh-- we've
co-authored this book.
And we've put together-- I've
met my match in obsessive,
driven researcher in Hugh.
And he's great.
He's brilliant.
>>NOORY: What drives you?
>>VIEIRA: What drives me?
In the show, we've been
contacted by so many people.
Mothers who said,
I love your show.
I could sit down with my son and
watch it and not be offended.
You show care for other people.
You show camaraderie,
humility, respect.
You bring in professionals
that are really engaged.
>>NOORY: But you're
a good guy, Jim.
You're a good guy.
>>VIEIRA: I like to try to
follow a moral code where
you're kind and
you're thoughtful.
And people watch our show.
There's no destruction
of the environment.
There's nothing crazy going on.
We spend all our
time researching
in libraries and caves.
And there's a
sense of adventure,
and there's a sense
of drive that we all
share something the same.
Let's figure these mysteries
out, and let's not be arrogant.
Let's make it interesting.
>>NOORY: Well, you love
doing what you're doing.
>>VIEIRA: Well, I do.
I love doing stone work.
On the weekends,
if I wasn't here,
I'd be building a 14-foot
stone tower in the woods,
or I'd be doing some research.
And I try to convey
that to people.
You obviously love
doing what you do,
and you're brilliant at it.
So it's just like that
is the cure for humanity
is do what your love in
the face of all rejection.
And we want to convey that.
And people have
taken shots at us,
like you guys are
our of you're mind.
I'm like, I'm just
making a case that's
worthy of further
investigation--
>>NOORY: It's a great mystery.
>>VIEIRA: It is a great mystery.
>>NOORY: And I don't know if we
were able to officially reveal
that this planet
had giants roaming
on it, what the humankind
significance would be.
I mean, what would people say?
How would they react?
There's got to be a common
denominator somewhere.
There's something somewhere that
these beings, these giants that
roamed this planet, had
something very special about.
There's something I can't
put my finger on yet.
I don't know if
you've theorized that,
whether they were,
as we talked about,
extraterrestrial creatures,
or they were truly biblical
from the fallen angels.
But there's something there
that I can't find yet.
>>VIEIRA: I think in
Snowden's documents,
I think the president of
Iran was talking about 8-
and 9-foot humanoids existing.
And I don't know if it was
based on the Snowden material,
but I'll say that
Karen Hudes, I think
her name was, former
counsel at the World Bank,
gave all this
whistleblower information.
And within it, she talked about
beings with elongated skulls
who go back to the Ice Age
are in control of the banking
system and the Vatican.
She actually said that.
She was a former lead
counsel, and she came out
as a whistleblower.
>>NOORY: That's dramatic.
>>VIEIRA: Right?
And you have to look at what
is going on on this planet.
What does skull elongation--
>>NOORY: All about?
>>VIEIRA: --mean?
All about, right?
I talked to a lot of
anthropologists and--
>>NOORY: Now those aren't
giants, though, are they?
>>VIEIRA: A lot of them
in the United States,
in the anatomic
anomalies chapter,
they were a giant
with elongated skulls.
>>NOORY: Like 7-, 8-foot tall?
>>VIEIRA: Yes.
Yes, sometimes more than that.
And you have many
accounts of this.
What is going on with
skull elongation?
What happened cataclysmically
12,000, 15,000 years ago?
Was it like Graham Hancock
says, like a mass hypnosis,
or a mass-- like we all
have PTSD, basically,
from this event.
And if quantum
physicists are correct,
we are creating our
reality collectively.
Basically, with the contents,
the software programing
with the mind, we look at a star
20 billion light years away.
We change it at the subatomical
level by looking at it.
Is that because it's
changing out there
or because it's coming
from the projector?
It's coming from the projector.
So we are a species
with amnesia,
and we're kind of
stumbling around the dark,
trying to figure out.
And I'll also say, all
throughout history, we
have been wrong.
Every civilization has
been predominantly wrong
with their theories.
What do we have wrong?
Why are we so arrogant to think
that a vast majority of what
we think is true is not.
The Clovis barrier falls,
new finds all the time,
it's worthy of
further investigation.
You should not be
chastised because you're
asking these questions.
Something is amiss.
>>NOORY: These beings with
the elongated skulls look
extraterrestrial--
>>VIEIRA: They do.
>>NOORY: --to me.
Don't they?
>>VIEIRA: Sonora,
Mexico, three years ago--
we were going to visit there,
the lost city of giants.
We talked to Carlos Hayes,
the son of Paxson Hayes,
the great explorer of the '30s.
And we have pictures
of him with a giant--
it's all in the book--
a giant mummified head
in a gourd, bundled burials
of 7 and 1/2 foot mummies.
>>NOORY: We're talking
that big, aren't we?
>>VIEIRA: Yes.
It was huge.
And we talked to Carlos,
and he said his dad,
once he started reporting
these giant finds,
he was friends with the Yaqui
Indians, he lost his funding.
But they found 13
skulls out of I
think like 24 a
couple years ago.
And they're wild-looking.
They look alien-- in
the Sonora region also.
If you ask Brian Forest,
if you ask LA Marzulli--
I don't want to speak for
them, brilliant researchers--
they would probably say that--
and Steve Quayle-- skull
elongation, giant people,
and megalithic structures
have something to
do with each other.
>>NOORY: Yes,
they're all related.
>>VIEIRA: Being a
stonemason, I'll tell you.
From that perspective,
there is no way
that the societies that
were purported to build
certain things like the
Great Pyramid, the walls
of Sacsayhuaman, the
stuff at Pumapunku,
no way they could pull that off.
>>NOORY: Well,
you're a stonemason.
You've got that
kind of experience.
The pyramids of
Egypt, I believe were
done with some kind of
extraterrestrial help
or something to move
those blocks into place.
But I've always wondered if
we had massive-sized giants
on this planet, where to them
they were like a smaller scale
block would be to us
today, and that maybe they
were 20 feet tall, and
it was easy for them
to move these blocks around.
It that possible?
>>VIEIRA: It's a
fascinating possibility.
The earliest rendition
of Stonehenge--
I think it's in the
Tapestry, in like AD 1200--
shows Merlin with a giant,
with a normal-sized person
building Stonehenge.
Now, Hugh found that.
It's in the book, in his
"Fee-Fi-Fo-Fum" introduction.
And it's a very-- I would
say, oral history of Egypt
would talk about giants.
They would talk about
a sunken continent
to the west, not the
east, in the Atlantic.
They would probably
line up with this idea.
I agree.
Something's going on.
You see Christopher Dunn.
You see "The Revelation
of the Pyramids,"
the special I just
watched again last night.
Somethings going on with that.
You cannot pull
off those angles.
You cannot pull off-- it was
basically ground zero for a map
that represented the
circumference of the Earth
and so many other things,
the speed of light,
and things like that.
It really looks like.
Why are the most sophisticated,
largest stone structures
on the planet always the oldest?
Shouldn't it go in
the other direction?
>>NOORY: That's right.
Is there in your opinion,
Jim, a sophisticated plan
to suppress information,
to keep it hidden?
>>VIEIRA: I think so.
Like I said, I know
so many professionals.
You get to a point, though.
If there was some
spectacular find in current,
in real time, quite possibly.
Who knows?
That's definitely a possibility.
It could be another thing.
It could be just, like I said,
a species with amnesia, where we
keep the truth from ourselves.
We keep it out of grasp,
because it keeps going,
and it seems like right there.
We have basically
every form of proof
that giants existed, except more
skeletal evidence, like boom.
But if you look at
the whole story,
it's like it's all
pointing to that reality.
It's the oddest thing.
>>NOORY: Why can't we get
anthropologists to come forward
and say this stuff?
>>VIEIRA: I think because they
have to be cautious by nature.
>>NOORY: What are
they afraid of?
>>VIEIRA: I don't think-- well,
I would say it's more of a
there are things like--
you get into this area,
like we had Todd Disotell
on, who's a really nice guy.
He's really, really bright.
And he'd speculate.
He's like, I'm a
physical anthropologist.
I need physical proof.
And I would say, well,
from a historical detective
standpoint, look at this.
And he really-- that's
just not his thing.
You could get a different
kind of anthropologist,
like a social anthropologist,
to look at it.
I would say that they
have to be cautious.
They get into these
realms, and they
get mixed up sometimes
with ideas that
are considered pseudoscience.
And then maybe they won't
advance in their careers.
They won't get funding.
There's definitely
an academic filter.
>>NOORY: They're scared.
There's a reason they're
scared about something.
>>VIEIRA: You don't want to
get into this realm of where
you just can objectively
talk about it.
>>NOORY: I think it would
be a great discovery.
>>VIEIRA: Of course.
>>NOORY: Because if
they came forward
with one of these skeletons
there put together.
>>VIEIRA: Yeah.
I hear stories all
the time, and they're
infuriating when they don't
lead to physical evidence.
And I'm like you.
I want answers.
I don't give a rat's
ass about what it is.
I just want the
truth of the matter,
and let's figure out what it
is by bringing science in.
>>NOORY: Are you ever going to
stop doing what you're doing?
>>VIEIRA: No, I would say--
>>NOORY: Because you
are all over the place.
>>VIEIRA: What my gut tells
me is that I the continent
of Atlantis existed.
I've read through so much
of the Cayce readings
and Plato's stuff.
Like the Indian-- the old text
of the continent of India,
Indian people talk about the
continent of an Atlantis.
They just give it
a different name.
It isn't all just Plato.
>>NOORY: And there might
have been giants there too.
>>VIEIRA: Yes, exactly.
So I really feel
there was a mystery,
that there were the lost Hall of
Records talked about by Cayce.
I'll tell you, I
looked-- he was basically
a healer who just started
talking about these past lives
of people.
The internal consistency
of the 14,000 readings,
25 million words of the Cayce
material is mind-blowing.
>>NOORY: It is.
>>VIEIRA: A skeptic can
pick a couple holes--
>>NOORY: And extremely accurate.
>>VIEIRA: Extremely
accurate, right?
And what does my gut tell me?
My intuition must
count for something.
And I think we all share
all holographic reality,
once again.
And I think that, for me, is
the greatest "Indiana Jones"
quest is to find the lost
continent of Atlantis.
And, at the very least,
I will maybe free people
from the idea of being trapped.
Yeah, do I catch a lot of heat?
A lot of people take-- people
personally insult me, which
where I'm from, that's go time.
You know what I mean?
>>NOORY: They do?
Why?
>>VIEIRA: Because they
feel that I'm engaged
in wild speculation, maybe.
>>NOORY: You're a researcher.
You're hunting for answers.
>>VIEIRA: I know.
I know, man.
>>NOORY: Why put
somebody like that down?
>>VIEIRA: Because--
not Todd Disotell.
He's a great guy.
He's a skeptic.
I'm a skeptic.
It sounds weird,
but I'm a skeptic.
>>NOORY: Nothing wrong
with being a skeptic.
>>VIEIRA: Nothing
wrong with that.
>>NOORY: You're
looking for the truth.
>>VIEIRA: There are
a subclass of humans
that are trolls, that are
professional debunkers.
And basically, their brains
don't make enough dopamine.
And they get off, they get a
hit, by demeaning somebody.
>>NOORY: On everything.
>>VIEIRA: They got off, yeah.
>>NOORY: And they live on
the internet, these people.
>>VIEIRA: Yes, exactly.
And I'm kind of
off the internet.
I'm like a Luddite.
I'm in the library.
I'm not on the internet.
And they really, seriously,
that is how they get a hit.
That is their thing.
It's dopamine hitting the brain
to really ridicule someone,
to pick apart their arguments.
And there are many
bloggers who do that.
And then they have followers,
and then they kind of share
this glee of demeaning someone.
So hell with them.
>>NOORY: If you had to bet
everything you have, the ranch,
would you bet that giants
roamed this planet?
>>VIEIRA: Yes.
And you could say, show me
the proof, this and that.
That's what my gut tells me.
And it also tells me
that Atlantis existed.
And you're like,
who is this dude?
He's a stonemason, he studied
economics, he's a researcher.
>>NOORY: He's into giants.
>>VIEIRA: Who is he to say this?
I just know as an investigator.
Like if there were a murder, I
would want a detective like me
on the scene.
Not because, oh, I'm so
brilliant, or whatever.
I just have that
drive to figure out.
And I swear, I do
have that objectivity.
And I don't-- we go
through our book.
That stupid horned
skull story that
came from Sayre, Pennsylvania,
with the phony picture
of the skull, people keep
replaying that on the internet.
We debunked that whole thing.
We debunked many other accounts.
We're being objective, and we're
trying to honestly figure out
what is going on.
>>NOORY: And the
frauds and the hoaxters
really must drive you crazy.
>>VIEIRA: That internet contest
with all the phony giants--
>>NOORY: Oh, horrible.
That must drive you nuts.
>>VIEIRA: It's because
people just go there
and they equate, I think,
legitimate research.
>>NOORY: They Photoshop and
everything else, don't they?
>>VIEIRA: Yes.
And then so it's
like there you go.
You're an idiot.
It's not just like, eh, you
might not find anything.
It's like, you're a fool
for going into this realm,
into this dark
corner of history.
And I say-- I try to
shine light on them--
explain all these Smithsonian
ethnology accounts.
They couldn't measure?
Is that what you've got?
That's your game?
Or their mastodon bones, when
they have human artifacts
all around them?
The other side is pretty weak.
And you never hear-- if
I were to say to you, all
around the country,
through over 100 years,
in every manner of historical
and scientific document,
there were skeletons over 7
feet from Martha's Vineyard,
Massachusetts, to Catalina
Island, California,
oftentimes mentioned with double
rows of teeth, giant jawbones,
in an era of inefficient
communication.
What is your-- how
did that happen?
Mismeasurement, mastodon
bones, disarticulation,
pituitary disorders,
mismeasurements.
>>NOORY: Whatever.
>>VIEIRA: Maybe some
percentage of that, but not
all of that, so what is
your skeptic worldview then?
I'm not saying you are,
but you know what I mean?
>>NOORY: Sure, I understand.
Give
>>VIEIRA: It back to me.
Don't just nitpick a
couple of things I've said.
Give me your worldview.
>>NOORY: If you
had that one wish
to have something answered
with what you're doing,
what would that be?
>>VIEIRA: I would say,
did Atlantis exist?
I really feel that's a linchpin
to the liberation of humanity.
It sounds weird.
But if we found records that
indicated that there was a lost
civilization, that they had the
same conflicts of basically,
you would say, good
and evil, service
to others versus
service to the self,
and they disintegrated
because of these conflicts,
and we had information
about that,
people would take a look
back, just take a step back.
And they would look at
the systems of control
in our society, and say,
it has to be different.
We're going off a freaking
cliff with overpopulation,
with the way humans are
treated, with the way
there's corporate control.
How do we do it better?
How do we be kinder?
How do we have respect
for all life forms?
You get involved in a war.
The devastation to
animals-- like I can't even
go to the pound to get a cat.
I have to send my
friend to do it,
because it breaks
my heart so much.
It breaks my heart.
And it's just like there are
so many humans like that,
that possess this empathy
and compassion, that
want a different world.
So how can that get done?
Maybe through
displaying that there
was a civilization that,
in part, did it right
and is facing what we are.
So let's get rid
of these systems
that we have in place now
that do not serve humanity.
>>NOORY: Jim, thanks for
being on "Beyond Belief."
I appreciate it.
>>VIEIRA: I appreciate it.
I'm always a fan of
you, and I respect
that you're so cool and
open-minded with all
of these things.
I really admire you.
>>NOORY: He's a giant
hunter, and that's
what he does for a living.
>>VIEIRA: [LAUGHING]
>>NOORY: And one day,
he just may very well
find what he's looking for.
I'm George Noory, and thanks
for watching "Beyond Belief."
[THEME MUSIC]